# UTD IEA 15 MW Blade Model

- The UTD IEA 15 MW blade model created by [Dr. D. Todd Griffith's group](https://labs.utdallas.edu/griffith/) is contained in this repository. 
- The UTD IEA 15 MW blade model was created using the modeling tool [NuMAD v2.0](https://github.com/sandialabs/NuMAD/releases/tag/v2.0) based on the original open-source [IEA 15 MW reference wind turbine blade design](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy20osti/75698.pdf). The UTD IEA 15 MW blade model was created to increase the body of knowledge on large-scale wind turbines and provide one more resource to the wind energy community that can be used as reference for future studies. 
- Detailed documentation of the blade structure and baseline structural performance of UTD IEA 15 MW blade model will be presented at the AIAA SciTech 2023 conference. The paper will be added in this repo as soon as it is made available, please see the Citation section below for the appropriate citation for this work. 

# Repo Contents
The following summarizes the contents in this repo:
- NuMAD model: 
   - NuMAD_utd_iea15mw.xlsx : This is the primary input file for NuMAD v2.0. It is a spreadsheet that contains the blade model data (detailed geometry, materials, layup information, and bill of materials summary). 
   - utd_iea15mw.nmd : This is the NuMAD model file. It was produced using NuMAD v2.0 with input from the NuMAD_utd_iea15ms.xlsx spreadsheet. 
   - MatDBsi.txt : This text file contains the NuMAD materials database which includes the material and laminate property information. 
   - "airfoils" folder : This folder contains a set of files with the NuMAD airfoil geometry coordinates used to model the blade. 
- Useful output files: 
  - shell7.src : Text file generated by NuMAD that can be input into ANSYS to generate a finite element model of the UTD IEA 15 MW blade. 
  - utd_iea15mw.p3d : Blade external geometry file in Plot 3D file format. 
  - utd_iea15mw.iges : Geometry file exported from ANSYS that can be used for CAD modeling. It contains zero-thickness surfaces of the otuer moldline of the blade and shear webs. 
  - utd_iea15mw_ElastoDynBlade_ratedrpm.dat: ElastoDyn blade file used in OpenFAST simulations. The mode shapes in this file were generated at the rated rpm of the blade. 
- Additional outputs from PreComp and BModes: 
  - PreComp_SectionData.mat : Output MATLAB structure that contains a full set of cross-sectional blade properties generated by PreComp. 
  - bmodes_0rpm.out : BModes output file that contains the blade frequencies and mode shapes for parked conditions (0 rpm).

# Conference Paper Contents
The conference paper contains the following: 
- Methodology: 
  - Blade model creation and analysis process. 
  - Design and analysis software. 
  - Conversion of blade model from WISDEM to NuMAD. 
- Blade characteristics: 
  - Visualization of blade model and distributed properties. 
  - Blade mass and bill of materials (BOM). 
  - Modal properties.
- Detailed Structural Analysis:
  - Design load case (DLC) analysis. 
  - Baseline structural analysis: Deflection, strength, fatigue, buckling, and flutter. 
  - Blade model score card. 

# Point of Contact
- Alejandra S. Escalera Mendoza: ase180001@utdallas.edu
- D. Todd Griffith: tgriffith@utdallas.edu

# Citation
If you use this model in your research or publications, please cite using the following (both text and LaTeX formats are provided for convenience):  

Escalera Mendoza, A.S., Mishra, I., Griffith, D.T., "An Open-Source NuMAD Model for the IEA 15 MW Blade with Baseline Structural Analysis," AIAA Scitech 2023 Forum, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Harbor, Maryland, 2023. 

    @inproceedings{UTDIEA15MW_blademodel,
    address = {National Harbor, Maryland},
    title = {{An Open-Source NuMAD Model for the IEA 15 MW Blade with Baseline Structural Analysis}},
    doi = {tbd},
    language = {en},
    booktitle = {{AIAA} {Scitech} 2023 {Forum}},
    publisher = {American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics},
    author = {Escalera Mendoza, Alejandra Stefania and Mishra, Ipsita and Griffith, D. Todd},
    month = jan,
    year = {2023}
    }
